without further Ado
um I'll tell you a little bit more about
about Peterborough plus uh Peter plus
generates artworks and immersive
environments using modeling and
rendering software projection mapping 3D
printing and machine learning the
respective of fiction Wu Plus's artwork
investigates our estrangement associated
with technological advancement and
modernity in 2020 he founded and created
Epoch which I was just discussing which
is an artist-run virtual experiment that
functions as an inclusive community
building platform inviting established
and emerging artists working in both
digital and analog mediums to
participate being primarily articentric
Epoch has established itself as a
virtual destination that challenges the
status quo with its critical and
Innovative approach to curation and
exhibition building
in 2019 woo plus was one of the cola
individual artist fellowship and the
public art division commission with Los
Angeles World airports Arts exhibition
program to be completed in 2022. he
received his MFA from the San Francisco
art institute and his BFA from the
University of Windsor Wu plus lives and
works in Los Angeles and so here are
we're just going to take a one minute
break we're going to get set up on the
back end because this talk is coming to
you live and Peter will be on with us in
just a moment
thanks for bearing with us everybody uh
it's always fun to do virtual events I'm
here with Peter Wu plus hey Peter Hi how
are you thank you for having me thanks
for the great aerial festival for having
me thanks for everybody for tuning in
um yeah
um should we just go ahead and do this
yeah dive in you know I'm really excited
to you know I'm gonna kind of like chime
in on your conversation on your
presentation because I have a lot to say
about Epoch is one of my favorite uh
virtual projects that has emerged in the
past few years
um it's a deeply inspiring and super
inclusive program
um that I can't believe you uh you know
you've and it's really taken a lot of
stamina I'll also mention you know that
Peter was has been I think the first
person to sell an entire exhibition as
an nft
um which is a really which is a really
cool kind of historical Milestone and
you know also helps us reimagine what
distribution of funds and how purchasing
and transacting can be intentional and
support a whole community so you know I
I shut up and let you talk now
um yeah just talked a little bit about
myself so I'm from a little town of
Canada 3000 people where my parents own
the this Chinese restaurant and I went
to school I did my grad studies at the
San Francisco Institute where I was 30
new genres which basically means
anything goes but my focus was more in
sculpture New Media installation
and then after graduating I came to La
where I
um took up a lot of jobs in the art
industry from working within galleries
being an art installer being a teaching
artist
and
um all those roles and the Encounters of
meeting all these people along the way
was an accumulation of experiences which
led to the formation of epoch so I'm
just going to share my screen now
um so Epoch is an artist-run virtual
experiment launchers
second we're not getting the screen
share we're not getting the screen share
no just um there we go we got it now if
I do full screen is it not coming out
perfect we're good now oh we're good
okay
um so Epoch is an artist run virtual
experiment launched at the beginning of
quarantine
the inability in museums and galleries
to adapt to an online world was rendered
evident upon the Rival of covid-19 with
many institutions attempting to recreate
physical engagement through online
viewing questions concerning the role of
curation bacteriality and the museum
itself have been raised
um epoch's unique approach to exhibition
building seeks to address these issues
by bridging reality with the virtual
through critical and compelling
presentations with nine exhibitions to
date featuring over 70 International
established and emerging contemporary
artists the gallery seeks to create a
new critical context to experience art
while focusing our ambition to react to
current social political situations so
the first image you're saying here is uh
the very first show which is called
endemo
and um
it you know at the beginning to
quarantine obviously all us artists lost
our exhibition opportunities so I
thought I mean and our job so I just
thought oh well I have a little bit of
time on my hands let's figure out how to
do this and I've always wanted to do a
virtual Gallery but it didn't actually
really make sense before the quarantine
and so this was kind of a way for me to
kind of build a community and and invite
artists that I respect and love and into
this virtual environment
um so this is situated on this really
kind of bleach white Island and
um it's kind of reflecting uh what kind
of the sentiments of what we're going
through this idea of isolation and and
uh ruins so ruins the big thing that I
kind of go back to a lot
um it's not necessarily dystopic or
utopic but just kind of just kind of a
metaphor or an analogy of where we are
in our current state
um surprisingly enough no one wanted to
be in this first show uh
but um
uh because I don't think that real
people really understood what the whole
what it was and it was just kind of
really foreign in itself so I eventually
asked a lot of my really close friends
and thank God they they they agreed to
be in it and because I think they really
saw my previous work and they knew kind
of what I was doing and so they kind of
entrusted their work in my hands and I
really really appreciate them because it
kind of like
from this point really kind of uh
blew up in a certain way
um now I'm not going to talk about all
my exhibitions that I've done
um but what I'm going to be focusing on
more is the shows that where I'm taking
um actual sites and then
kind of bringing him to the virtual
world I kind of believe that tethering
um something that is in the real world
and bringing it to the virtual world
kind of can talk about the things that
are critically happening in in the world
and we can kind of like go back and
forth
um uh I try not to go too much in
fantasy when I'm doing these shows and I
kind of try to keep it to some sort of
kind of realism but it of course is a
virtual world so there's a certain
fantasy involved so this picture is
um the the demolish demolished um
amundsen building in Los Angeles the Los
Angeles so it's the LACMA amundsen
building and so when this was happening
it was kind of very
um
uh controversial because it was getting
replaced by this other building by a
Swiss architect namely Peter zumther and
so I thought to create it
as a virtual show so I rebuilt the
amundsen building from scratch and then
I demolished it and try to kind of match
it up pretty as close as I possibly can
and I curated uh all nine or ten artists
in this exhibition I think 90 of them
were latinx and from Los Angeles and
um it's kind of just me talking about
the idea of the fragility of the
institution itself
um this piece is by Katana Ferreira so
what he did he had access he got a I
think a LACMA art and Tech Grant so he
was able to actually Source actual
pieces from the museum when it was
getting destroyed and then he 3D scanned
them and then we placed them into this
environment so there's kind of this
weird meta Duality thing happening
um this is a work by Mario yabar Jr and
he went out into his neighborhood in Los
Angeles and found the oldest building
um in his neighborhood and this is an
ammunition bunker I think it was in the
1760s so what he did was he took a drone
and took a lot of images around it and
then we photogrammetry and placed it
into the space
um so this work is uh this show is
called Wonderland and
um it's based off this site in China
where China tried to build their own
Disney like Park theme park
but uh and they try to call it
Wonderland but they lost funding
and so it all that stands now is this
castle and the kind of the farmers
reclaimed the land and whatnot and so I
thought
um to kind of recreate this site and
place uh artists within the site so I
just saw pictures online I didn't have
any blueprints so then I just remodeled
the site from pictures as close as I
possibly can
and uh place works within it now this
show is quite personal for me because
um
it has to do it was launched at the time
when um when there was a lot of backlash
against Chinese Americans so I curated a
show about uh Chinese
-american but Chinese artists that are
from the diaspora
so
um let me see
okay so this is a work by zizang Wu and
he's based in uh I think he was based in
New York but he goes back to Hong Kong
also
and it he placed all these it's from a
video that he's done and so he took
miles from his videos and then uh placed
them in this environment and obviously
they're hospital beds and so it's quite
uncanny to actually jump into an
hospital bed
and um experience it from that view so
it was interesting doing this show
because I when I'm curating I'm I'm
really allowing a lot of agency for the
artist to do what they want so
um
when the people came and sent the works
in it was like uh everything was really
dark in Macabre for this show and I
didn't ask for anything so it kind of
really captured I think the sentiment of
what was happening
um this is a work by Sydney shenz who's
based out of New York and these are
Shane biddles which were I think used in
the Middle Ages and so what she did was
uh she these are actually physical
objects so we had to recreate them and
model them
uh digitally and so they have also these
marbles so you put your head in your
hand so if you did something bad you're
in the shame fiddle and then you have to
like move around and get this marble
through and it's a game that she kind of
created out of this kind of ridiculous
Act
um usually I don't put my own work in
the shows but I think that this was
exceptionally uh
touching and poignant show for me and so
I did this neon side that flashes
between the words assimilation and
annihilation
and uh this is by my hand my father's
handwriting and so
um it's kind of just talking about the
the simulation that Asian Americans kind
of go through to try to fit through fit
into uh
fit into a culture that is not own your
own and put this in this assimilation is
you kind of lose
your whole cultural heritage in a
certain way so
um and so we kind of it's like a break
in into what uh
our backgrounds are so we're kind of
disconnected and we don't have places so
Chinese or any age in diaspora uh we
have sometimes a lack of connection
between where we're from and where we
are now and we it's hard to call home
what is home we don't really know what
home is in a certain extent so this is
the second to last show this is called
Freeport and
um this is modeled after the actual
Luxembourg Freeport
and
um so online there was the blueprints
and elevations of the actual Freeport so
fortunately I got those and then I model
it pretty much to spec so when you're
actually going through the virtual space
you're actually
experiencing what it would be like to be
inside the actual free part now what I'm
doing here is uh this is the first time
I'm releasing it in nft
so
um at this time well before this uh I
was just doing everything altruistically
and I wasn't planning to make money and
I just really kind of wanted to make
cool exhibitions and have a lot of great
artists to show within them
um but when the nft thing rolled around
around earlier this year
a lot of artists approached me said that
I was kind of poised to do this so I
should figure out how to do this and um
that's what I did and
um I thought it would be a perfect show
to have it within a Freeport because
um there's a lot of similarities between
freeports and nfts where they are both
uh an unregulated territories their
constructs of capitalism and they can
enlist it unsavory practices like tax
evasion and whatnot but with a touch of
irony
um I see we sought to kind of circumvent
the similarities by offering a holistic
approach to an nft built on
um ecological Equitable and sustainable
models
so this is actually what the Freeport
looks like
um
[Music]
and this is the interior of the Freeport
modeled
and this is what it actually looks like
again
um so let me just go back to this image
because it's hard to stare at the other
one
um so with this model this what I wanted
wanted to do with the nft was that uh I
didn't want to Mint individual works and
I thought what was missing within the
current climate of of this whole
Marketplace and everything all these
things going on is that
um
there was just so much glut going on in
speculation that I kind of didn't want
to play into any of that so what I
decided to do well a lot of these odd
things that you see online a lot of the
the gifts and stuff there's no context
and I always thought well Epoch has
contacts in Spades because that's
essentially what I'm doing is building
context for these artworks to exist in
apart from this neutral white wall and
um
I chose to Mint the entire exhibition so
as an nft you are getting the whole
exhibition as a standalone app and full
8K and high-res audio and whatnot and
um
yeah
so okay so this is a work by Neo balufa
so this is within
um this kind of storage area situation
and these are talking uh paintings and
they're kind of talking about their
existence as nfts and within the
Freeport and whatnot
this is Juan Covelli and this is quite
an amazing installation that we all work
together to put together and uh there's
a great video that kind of accompanies
this and so you can go through then you
can go upstairs through the Freeport and
you can see it works by Alice Bucknell
Alice Bucknell was one of the first
artists that I wanted to get for this
show because she was really against nfts
on the uh but uh I kind of kind of the
model that I was introducing which was
more of an equitable and sustainable
model
uh in ecological so instead of ethereum
I chose to go with algorand which is a
POS blockchain which is 99.9 Less
impactful on the environment
and Equitable is uh this is the first
time that this has been done also is
that I created a smart contract which
splits the profits between all the
participating artists and the galleries
so 70 of each sale for the nft goes
directly into the participating artist
wallet 30 remains of the gallery 20
royalties are established for the
secondary market and after the end of
the show all the artists get an AP
edition of the exhibition themselves to
kind of hold value and then they can do
what they want with it afterwards
um so after telling Alice all about this
she was really excited to be within the
show and I really thank her for being
here
uh this is a word for harad Saab and he
really went through and modeled this
whole situation in this room and he's
quite talented at what he does and it's
uh there's a quite funny tidbit in this
is that you can go further in the space
if you turn around you can see the back
of the paintings or these facades of
paintings which are just essentially
cardboard texture no one really knows
that but uh yeah
um so this is just I've talked about
this already
um so this is my current exhibition that
just was leased uh maybe two and a half
weeks ago and it has a great list of
artists caken and Chien Chen Yi and
tiara rippino are also in the show but
also we're speaking on the panel for
great Arts as a festival and there are
in the
um the new art City exhibition diorama
Which Way curated
um so this is the most pop show I've
ever done
um and the nft will be released on
October 29th uh so this
show I modeled so this is an odd thing
so it's super meta so I am I'm working
kind of with this Gallery in Hong Kong
called wow Gallery well actually
um there's two cuters that ask me to be
in the show and then they they wanted
the their whole artist roster in the
show and I kind of didn't want to do
that because I didn't
want to kind of show there's a lot of
difficulties a lot of the things were
flatworks and I didn't want to uh I
don't think a lot of time flat Works
where's the best in Virtual environment
so I asked for full creative control
and so I got to curate the on the show
myself and kind of create the
environment so the environment is based
off the wow Gallery street so this is
actually the wild Galley this is exactly
kind of what it looks like
uh and the surrounding street with all
the buildings I modeled also
um so this exhibition will also be shown
in the wow Gallery within a group show
on the 29th so when I'm hoping when
people see the show and then they walk
out and they're like wow there's there's
some really crazy meta things going on
here
um this is a work by
um Dr Wu he's a tattoo artist so
um this is kind of one of also the First
shows I thought to would kind of expand
from not just showing artists but maybe
designers and other people that are
working in the creative industry and
seeing how that would go and we created
this environment for him and um
I think it looks pretty good
um so this is another view of the street
at the end here you see Tierra
um and shenshin's work
and this version is also in the new art
City diorama show
um and they have other things like
videos and other sculptures that are
within that so uh I think they may have
talked it within this talk but there's
this this piece called AAG which is
referencing to this cable that trans
travels through the Pacific Ocean and so
they when they approached me about the
show they wanted me to bring the ocean
the Pacific Ocean to the city and I was
like absolutely let's do it because they
were really thinking that the the ocean
was bringing all these types of places
together like Los Angeles which uh chin
chin and I are based in and tiara is
based was based in Honolulu at the time
and
um and then we're talking about Hong
Kong which is obviously the the Pacific
ocean connects all of us together
this work is by Gordon Chung so these
are recreated after his uh Windows
series and
um in the real life they're kind of made
out of wood and they have these kind of
newspaper wrappings around them and
stuff like that so we try to match it as
quite as accurately as we can and kind
of did the installation now obviously
the show is uh it's called replicant so
it is based off Blade Runner in a
certain way I don't it's like more like
an homage in a certain way but in the
background here the walls you can see
the aisles that are actually from
Decker's apartment uh from the in this
building originally
this is a work by Jennifer West her work
will also be in uh shown at the wow
Gallery physically
um and these are kind of uh she picks up
objects from the lay River and
um kind of places them over these
screens and does these film treatments
over top of them and whatnot and uh we
thought it would be interesting to put
it into this kind of decrepit garage
that's kind of underwater also and uh
and kind of away from the street
this is kakin's work so she's also in
the new art City diorama show and
um
so this is a really a high-risk
sculpture that they provided and we
place it in the sea and I actually built
this surrounding back City and lit it
really differently to kind of uh kind of
work with their piece in the back
um oops
and uh so this is another work by
Jennifer West and this is a skyscraper
piece
and it's uh a video you don't have the
you can go online and it's best to see
it on your laptop so you can experience
the whole situation and actually the
soundtrack is done by my friend
um Conrad black who also the the
Balenciaga virtual campaign uh recently
so he obviously really into Blade Runner
and he agreed to do it and uh
and uh it sounds amazing it's really
quite emotional going through it uh okay
I think that's it for my slides but
that's just a quick overview of what uh
I do
and
um
hello is anybody there wait there I'm
here and uh
um so that's just a just a quick
overview of what I I'm up with things
I've done so far and you can just go
online and see them and if anybody has
questions then we can talk about it
amazing
um thank you for such an in-depth tour
through this through the you know the
recent history of the of of the gallery
um you know it's what I love about the
show is I think this is the way that and
what I think is really clever about the
way that you use the way finding
um you know technically is that you know
in Newark city it's free movement and
because of that because of the way the
images are loaded we're a lot more
constricted by what we can do what kinds
of files we can use whereas you get
these beautiful extremely high
resolution renders to just load what
feels like an almost instantly
um yeah then you know it it is really an
excess and it loads beautifully on
mobile it's such an accessible yeah so
to work yeah yeah I when I first did the
the show actually everything was
animated
um but it wouldn't load on the internet
because it was just taking too much
bandwidth because it was 360 videos so
right now the three essentially you're
moving three 360 panoramas but what I
noticed is that
um because I really wanted the moving
water and the sound of the water but
funny enough when when you just added
the wallet sound of the water people
forgot that the water wasn't moving
so that was an interesting thing to
learn and
um and by using the point-and-click
system which I chose obviously I guess I
can use higher res images and uh really
utilize the whole CGI
uh models and textures and everything
but it's also I'm
it allows me to kind of treat this
cinematically where I'm leading the the
person through each piece and and it
kind of builds a story you know so I
kind of see it and more cinematically in
a certain way yeah
and I think that that's it's I loved
because something that you know I I love
to explore Virtual Worlds it's a really
you know prom the the central aspect of
my own research practice and and
interest
um and I you know I I always really
appreciate Virtual Worlds where
the the space is framed for the viewer
it's made to be seen it's not just
something that's been created to fulfill
a function of the mechanics of the game
it's something that or of the world or
whatever else it's something that's
framed to be something that is both
immersive and that you are embodied in
but also that you can look at in a way
that gives you this really particular
kind of vision that just like while at
one hand kind of removes you but on the
other hand sucks you in so much deeper
um and each of the like every time you
and I think that that's you know the way
that you and you install the show is so
clever in the way that you move through
these different spaces
um and it's framed beautifully every
time you click to another point it's so
intentional what you're looking at how
you move through it and you feel that
intention and it's awesome it's like
you're being taken on a hand on a
handled tour and it's yeah very
connected that's what that's yeah just
leading it through and and the
point-and-click system really allows me
to do that and uh and building up that
experiences where there are things that
there that can be discovered and you can
get lost in these certain things too but
it always kind of leads you back in a
certain way and on you can also
experience them on uh with the Google
cardboard on your phone so you can do
that or but if you get the nft then you
can use it with oculus or whatever not
so it's set up to do all that stuff
um yeah so that's amazing oh I didn't
realize that um that's so cool
um I mean it's it's interesting so I
would love to dig in a little bit more
into
what the experience of working in the
nft marketplace has been like for you
this is a highly it's a highly volatile
space in the sense that we have
proponents and opponents kind of like
having very polarized views we have all
different kinds of artists who are
engaging with this Marketplace in very
different ways
um you know and each Marketplace itself
I know that you work that your shows are
sold on the algor on Via algorand
um and you know the obviously we have
very different communities that are
transacting in eth versus Bitcoin versus
tasers
et cetera et cetera so how did you kind
of navigate that world and
um you know I know you said a little bit
about this in your presentation but I'd
love to learn more about why and like
how it was important for your artists to
to do that and participate in this uh
Marketplace so when all this came around
it was basically two or three months
trying to figure out how to launch the
show and with the nft and I didn't want
to participate on a Marketplace
because of the idea of this speculation
attached to it and the the glut just in
itself and
um I didn't want a lot of the the my the
the work to be shown a lot mince the
next you say some weird cat gif or
something like that so there was a
certain control in the Integrity of it
so I chose to
uh create the ability to buy it directly
at my site so
um and all the things that I've done is
all open source so the smart contract is
open source the button is open source so
essentially anybody that has the kind of
the knowledge of how to interact with
the blockchain that could use that stuff
to kind of build that themselves so I'm
pretty open about helping people do that
and I really want other people to kind
of explore
and galleries to explore these kinds of
options
um
yeah but the smart contract with etherm
I did obviously didn't want to be
ethereum because it was ecologically
damaging and we didn't know when it was
going to switch over to 2.0 but
um and I did a lot of research and I
found that algorand was one of the more
emerging ones and it has a really really
strong backbone and a lot of people are
developing on it more so than tesos and
more so than anything else and there's
like and it's the transaction fees are
basically zero which is zero is one uh
0.001 per transaction
and it's really really fast and whatnot
so I chose algorand as uh as and the
community is really quite amazing I mean
every uh blockchain has their own
certain kind of community and you see
that with uh tezos and whatnot but uh
because I don't think we're we're on
ethereum it's a more tight-knit because
everybody just wants to help each other
so I have been in communication with a
lot of marketplaces that have been
really wanting to show the work but
um
uh me trying to figure out how my smart
contract which would work with that
because it's quite this white smart
contract is quite something that's uh
hasn't not been done before so it's hard
to kind of place them into the
marketplace because of the variables
that I've made but I will be making
um uh getting a lot of funding soon so I
will be creating a mini decks which
people can be uh uh be able to trade the
things on on directly off the site so
that's awesome I mean I think that yeah
I mean thinking through like the the
theme of the festival worldsing protocol
how do we look at the world how do we
look at it as interconnected how do we
change from the damaging protocols and
participate in meaningful ways that
don't constrain us to the kinds of
scripts that have been written for us as
we were just talking about with one yeah
with Wendy a few minutes ago
um and I just think it's so inspiring
for that you wrote your own protocol you
decided hey I'm going to participate on
in this but I'm going to do it on my own
terms in my own way well it's it's a lot
you know a lot of the the projects I do
are very subversive and and kind of
challenge the art World itself and the
model that it's kind of imposed upon us
and being a artist of color it's really
you kind of realize after that that
world isn't for us so I figured this is
an opportunity to kind of build our own
world and and build our own economic
system that helps and supports each
other so the smart contract that I did
was very communal and it's Equitable and
and essentially they're they're part
owner of the piece you know because
their name is part of the nft so
um in blockchain really kind of in a way
is giving you everybody the ability if
you really want to figure it out to be
able to build your own economies and
build your own communities and and your
support systems and don't have to you
don't have to no longer be beholden to
these marketplaces or the art World
itself and how it functions so funny
enough like when I release the nft and
it's done relatively well uh sold three
out of the five and and after that all
these galleries have been trying to hit
me up and trying to figure out how how
to do this and I'm just like well do you
know what blockchain is and sometimes
they're like well we don't really know
what that is I'm like well don't try to
build something on your own site you
don't know what that is to begin with
and I'm not really here to kind of walk
you through and teach you but and I
don't really want to work with anybody
that especially a galley that's just
there for the money grab now there's
some other galleries that print up
approach me and they're way more about
wanting to build a community and about
like going into a different direction
that opposes the the art system which
has been around for a hundred years and
and they're kind of worried I feel like
they're they're trying to get on board
but they don't know how but they're kind
of really worried about what this means
for them because the whole the whole
system is changing you know
yeah absolutely and you know I I also
really appreciate you know this act that
you did of you know writing your own
protocol because
um I think that what I've been seeing
not in every case there's so many
fabulous things happening in the crypto
Community but in certain aspects I'm
seeing damaging systems that have been
in place being concretized reconstructed
repackaged and shield is something
different
um kind of Honor this guise of like a
utopian future when it's you know it's
all based on extractive consumption at
the end of the day and so you know I
I've been I've been
my biggest qualm is the is the
nomenclature I think in a lot of ways
and the convert and like how the
conversation it develops because I think
that that's where you know I mean it's I
want people to call a spade a spade you
know like in order to understand the
world in order to build it better we
have to look at it for what it is and
not be bogged down by an illusion her by
a popular narrative and I appreciate you
cutting through that noise in so many
ways with this show and also you know
just the idea of you know in my in my
view of a more perfect in my view of a
more perfect ecosystem the artist proof
is quintessential and the fact that each
of these nft exhibitions each artist
gets that stake in it so even before
even before they you sell a single
Edition in dividends or you know split
amongst however that is going to work
each artist has value just in simply
holding that token absolutely and that
is and that also makes the artist
a co-collaborator a you know uh
you know it really enmeshes them into
the into the work and into the the value
that's created in a way that feels so
much more egalitarian
um and and it's not just me I I mean I
didn't I can't I wish I could take
credit for thinking about all this but
it's really having conversations with a
lot of different artists
like patano Ferreira he was really
helpful in figuring out the smart
contract and how it kind of breaks up
and talking about the idea of equity
because he's really into that and
um and it's a lot of conversations of
what what what people want and what they
want to see in the art world you know
and and through that is how I decided to
kind of go about doing what what do I do
so
um and I think you know this whole
Community aspect and and you know yes I
add a Plus on my last name I think it's
really I added it at a certain time when
I was working with AI and I realized
that this thing could do
sometimes things better than I can I
could write better than I can it can
sometimes make a painting better than I
can and so I added that because I
realized that the future is not just me
and then when Epoch came around then it
made more sense that it wasn't just me
and I usually don't add my name to any
of the exhibitions or anything I kind of
like it to be existing on its own kind
of terms without
maybe that's an identity thing that I
have drum over but anyways it's it's uh
it but it's about the community and it's
about
um supporting the artist and trying to
figure out different kind of systems to
and yeah it works but it also it's also
in a way subversive it's trying to make
trying to trying to question what what
the current system is and how we could
do it better now I wouldn't say it it's
called
um utopic because I don't really believe
in Utopia in a certain aspect but but
it's it's an attempt to do something
else so
oh totally um and I think that's that's
the that's so important it's you know
we've been talking so much about
imagining alternative futures
um you know then with the Maury and one
of the opening talks was talking about
how it's quintessential that we dream at
this moment because without dreaming we
can't actualize something that
um it needs to be that would be so much
more wholesome and generative and
regenerative in so many ways
um you know you mentioned the community
a bunch and you know I think that what
you have done is fabulously well as well
is bring a community around this Gallery
bring communities of artists together
you can feel how strongly The Works are
in dialogue with each other in each show
um how do you go about doing that and
what's your kind of you know how do you
approach this idea of creating community
Through the curatorial work that you're
doing
um so a lot of my the program and 90 of
it or more is is women queer trans and
artists of color that's basically the
focus that I I wanted to go with
um but just curatorial and I don't
really even call myself a curator that
much because I don't write anything so
um in a certain way a lot of people who
are in The Press ask me for press
releases and I say well I don't write
press releases but you know this is what
the show is about and if you want to
write something about it I really love
to hear what you're gonna write and they
actually come back and write something
really amazing which is quite
extraordinary it's not a shelled out
repeated press release and I and I do
appreciate the support that I've gotten
through that because it's been quite
fabulous
um but for curation wise I I usually
start off with an artist or two I have
in mind and I have a list of artists
that I I want to work with in the future
and I kind of think about what the show
is going to be and the environment it's
going to be in and then kind of working
within the environment at the same time
takes shape so
um sometimes the environment isn't
always there and sometimes I have input
with the artist so I really work closely
with them and then everything kind of
comes together
so
um
yeah and then after I choose the two a
couple artists and talk to them and then
I kind of Branch out like a web and see
who else could have uh an interesting
conversation with their works and within
the show too so yeah
I mean yeah I mean I'm not like a you
are especially uh very very historical
and and and curatorial curatorial
whereas I I think it's it's a different
approach hey there's you know there's
there's space where all of us here and
there's no way that's the right way I
think you know what what we do is make
connections between different people and
see what grows from you know watering
the seed a little bit that's you know
kind of how I how I think about this
um and you know hopefully through that
you know care and watering and kind of
like tending to to our to our little
cabbage patch that you know we that
something really beautiful can bloom out
of that and that is and that work is not
done by you or I that's work is done by
the artist and what you know what kinds
of uh collisions you know make sparks
basically yeah
um and if we're talking about collisions
the reason why Epoch has gotten to the
where it is if you're seeing it from the
first image I showed on the island to
now it's because each artist is bringing
me something that's really challenging
to do so each time I'm learning
something else that I can actually Place
into the next show or in the current
show and like so it's an evolution of
experiences again where it's getting it
to this point so uh each time I'm
getting more knowledge and working with
them because they always bring something
that's like I don't know how to do that
but let's try to figure it out you know
so it's an interesting experience and
um and I think for artists themselves
you know especially I I don't usually I
mean maybe right now 70 are digitally
based but maybe 30 percent have no
experience in it so in the digital world
so I usually help them kind of walk them
through what is the possibilities and so
when you approach an artist that is
using an analog artist uh for the dirt
digital space and helping them through
that and trying to get their Vision
across they're realizing that there's no
constrictions to monetary scale or
physics itself and so it kind of expands
their practice so a lot of them have
come back to me and said wow this has
really helped me think in a different
ways about my work and then that that
just means a lot to me you know what I'm
saying so yeah oh no that's really cool
to hear
um you know I I
um my my specialty and my focus is
really the online exhibition format
that's what I am uniquely interested in
and how we can share Rich
phenomenologies through the screen that
don't feel like flattened experiences
that are native environments for the
artwork that is on display
um you know there's such a long history
in in digital art curation New Media art
of like the the bad translation of
something that's taken off screen into
the physical world and rendered uh
Anodyne or you know just uh
malfunctioning and just out yeah you
know out of context
um and yeah so like that to me is the
you were speaking about this earlier
like that's the part to me that's the
most cogent about what you're doing is
that you are building native
environments for the work you are giving
them a context where there isn't one and
not something that you know as you know
again I I make nfts I buy nfts I'm
really I you know I've been
participating a lot in that Community
but my biggest qualm with the way that
we experience nfts is that they're
totally out of context that they're
promoting around the internet a link on
openc here you know uh a portal to a
storefront on super rare there
um and it feels like you might even have
a selection of works but then it's just
a scroll and then it becomes another
algorithmically determined thing that we
we encounter
um and so to to approach this project
and to a project that is rooted in
experience first like yeah the buying of
the nft comes after you've gone into the
show and you're you know you fall in
love with the worlds I mean I the
replicant show is so much fun I mean we
did a little tour the other night and we
were going through the different spaces
you know there are some of the really
intricacies of some of the elaborate uh
tunnels you can kind of go down in in
replicas
yeah in this show there's a lot of
subtleties
um
well there's some um you know Hong Kong
had a lot of protests so there's a lot
of things that are hidden with this uh
so it's within hiding it and seeing if
you can get away with showing it in Hong
Kong too and I hope they don't see this
but
um but uh yeah so
um they're at every work and every show
that I do there are a lot of metaphors
that I I add and actually each show has
an Easter egg too or one or two so there
are things that are hidden which nobody
has really found yet but it's
interesting that you know I like that
idea of having it
um I think the idea of like uh
you know when I first did the the EPO I
mean the endemic show
um people are like well is it going to
be the same thing in the next show and
I'm like no it's gonna be a totally
different environment they're like what
do you mean I'm like I'm gonna build out
every single time a different
environment because I don't this whole
like idea of like
having something fixed never made sense
to me you know what I'm saying so uh
just being you know person of color and
then people thinking I'm a certain way
I'm not I think I'm trying to do that
itself so I I think like everything I'm
doing is as kind of a reflection of
what I believe that should be in the
world uh and that you know because I
used to do web design too in certain way
so like logo like design was like the
hardest thing for me because I didn't
understand in my brain why something had
to be so permanent or like a tattoo even
for me I like I can't do it because it's
like that's just too permanent and I'm
constantly changing and and and so I
thought that well let's make like
something like a gallery of virtual
space that's like kind of like a
bouncing ball which can talk about
certain aspects because of the context
and the things that I put into it so it
can kind of uh uh kind of reflect the
world that we're we're we're living
through and so if you look at the
history of epoch it's kind of an analogy
to all the things that would happen to
us in the last year and a half and it's
kind of interesting to see just the time
spans of each show and and and what uh
what the things that I'm trying to I'm
trying to talk about so yeah
absolutely
um I'm so excited for to see what you
have coming up for us next there's so
many exciting things that I can I can
tackle I think I could talk about that
one yeah yeah I think so so
um uh surprisingly enough because I did
the LACMA show uh which was called
fandom limb the one that you saw with
the demolished amundsen building and I
thought they hated me because
um I went after the institution and it's
surprised it's weird every show that I
get I usually get like three or more
pieces of press but it's funny that
nobody wanted to write about that show
and I think it's because no one wanted
to go against the man but when the
Freeport show released and we had the
artist uh Sarah Rosalina Brady in the
show which she got an art and Tech
recipient Grant she showed it to the
head of lacma's Art and tech department
um Joe Ferrari and he approached me and
we had coffee and stuff like that and I
told him about algorand and what I was
doing
and he was like this is amazing I would
love to work with you so we are now
collaborating a show with LACMA in 2022
early 2022 and
um uh yeah they're fully funding the
show and they're giving me complete
creative control because uh
you know they were also the curators
there they were all like um we don't
want to force him to do something on our
terms let him do whatever the thing he
wants to do so I'll be curating
um maybe 10 or so artists from their
previous and current art and Tech
recipients within that show and I'm not
going to talk about the theme yet but
it's kind of I don't know if it's gonna
pass but
it's pretty it's pretty messed up but
not that bad stuff
I appreciate you pushing the envelope
because I think this is really important
particularly with institutions and you
know obviously institutions have their
problems but it is but I do have to say
that it is so incredible to see this
work be recognized by an institution
like the LACMA because I think that it
you know as as you know however you want
to argue this it does give it this kind
of
um historical uh this historical framing
um it gives so much visibility it
obviously gives funding and support
um and it also adds the level of
legitimacy in saying that okay like even
if you know whether we agree with this
what with you know X Y or Z institution
uh you know it doesn't you know whether
we agree with them or not like the fact
that they're recognizing this work and
seeing it is what's important and which
where the money should be going and
where the attention should be focused
just showcases how crucial this work is
when we've known that but even more
people will start to take the memo so
I'm I'm very um cautious about who I
work with and stuff a lot of other
institutions have approached me a lot of
them just wanted me to recreate their
spaces and I'm just like well I'm not
you can just get a web designer or get
matterport to scan the place you don't
need me I have a special different set
of skills and if and but I I you know a
lot of ways if you let me do the you
know think about what it is that uh we
should be doing and how we can talk
about things critically then uh it's
interesting that I could come up with
certain things but
um it's interesting working with a
gallery in institutions because I you
know I've done shows where I'm just been
doing it myself and thinking about
things but I thought how do we expand to
kind of work with these kind of other
type of systems that are really kind of
maybe stuck in the art world
and how because I know the the thing
that I could offer so I'm appreciative
that they they see that but it's also
very difficult working with them a lot
of time because obviously there's a lot
of red tape a lot of things that they
want to be done a lot of things that
they don't want to be have their name on
but it's like
and and I only choose projects where I I
have complete kind of creative control
over the thing and then we can and I can
choose the artists and that things
aren't really shoved down my throat or
whatever not so yeah on your own terms
you know I I think that that's a great
pleased to to leave us today we're just
out of time
um and
you know I think that that's really
important is to not just accept the
scripts that are handed to you you know
not look at the protocol that is
defining what is happening to you or how
you need to work but rather saying okay
like I have space here I have agency
here despite any constrictions that are
put in place and this is what I can do
this is what I can achieve and this is
the stamp that uh
you know is most aligned with my beliefs
and my work practice and all these
different things
um so that's a to really you know did
some really wonderful Insight Peter um
and you know just congratulations again
on the on on the LACMA in the LACMA
thing and congratulations on replicant
show it's absolutely stunning everyone
please go and check it out
um if you can find the secret Easter egg
in the replicant show you will find the
gray area show linked there but it's a
toughie you're gonna have to really do
some scouring
um
directly to the new art City show
there's a wonderful portal that leads
directly into the replicant show yeah
please go and check that out
thank you way thank you great area for
having me and
um everybody wants to reach me on DM
through Instagram I'm feel free to I'm
always here to talk and talk about stuff
and share share ideas that's so generous
of you Peter thank you so much okay
bye